In this lesson we're going to combine our knowledge of functions with a new topic objects.
Objects are the basis for every python program that you will ever write.
Not to oversimplify but when programming in Python we do things with stuff.
Please pardon my formality.
Bye.
Do things.
I mean calling functions functions that add to numbers functions that import data functions that fit
regressions or generate charts or train machine learning models and by stuff I mean objects.
This lesson will be all about the stuff part.
So let's talk about objects you see.
Pretty much everything in Python is an object.
Remember those modules that we talked about in previous lessons modules like pandas math or our own
life module.
Those are objects.
We also had data frames that we put inside our x and y variables data frames are objects too.
And the plot inside our APL t variable is also an object more formally all the data in Python.
Take the form of objects and the goal of this lesson is to explain the code that we wrote in previous
lessons in more detail by the end of this lesson.
I want you guys to have a deeper understanding of how PD.
Don't read see as V and peel T don't show and rigour dot intercept actually work.
My goal is to make these lines of code make a lot more sense.
Let's make a real life analogy to objects in python.
Now suppose you have a car.
If you don't own a car don't worry.
Owning a car is not a prerequisite for this course.
Actually don't own a car myself but I've watched enough top gear to get very good at talking about cars
and pretending I own one.
Anyhow we're going to talk about your red car like it's a python object.
First off your car needs to have a name.
After all every decent car has a name.
David Hasselhoff Scott and Knight-Ridder was called kit and in pixels movie The protagonist was called
Lightning McQueen.
So in honor of Pixar we're gonna name your red racecar.
Lightning McQueen all lowercase and with another school to keep with Python naming conventions and also
avoid expensive American lawsuits.
Now if you have to describe this car to your friends you might talk about your car's color.
The number of seats it has the power of the engine or how much petrol you have left in the tank.
All these things are attributes of your car.
Now there's something quite significant about this namely these attributes capture information about
the state of your car and your costs state can change.
For example as you're driving along the amount of fuel in the tank will decrease in the same way.
If you've got a computer game the state of the game will also change right.
Most obviously the level that the player is on will change as the program runs.
This is the kind of thing I'm alluding to when I'm talking about state but coming back to these attributes
let's talk about these attributes in a bit more detail and look at the python's syntax.
The thing is much of Python programming boils down to this simple pattern object dot attribute.
So if you were writing a piece of Python code accessing the attributes of your car then you might write
something like lightning mcqueen dark color or lightning mcqueen dot engine power or lightning mcqueen
dot mileage.
We've actually encountered this object dot attribute pattern many times before.
One of the best examples is when we pulled out the coefficient of regression or when we access the intercept
of the regression in both of these cases the linear regression inside our regular variable was the object
and this object had an attribute called intercept underscore.
Now don't worry about the underscore at the end of this name.
It's just part of the name of the attribute.
The underscore has no special meaning they could have called his attributes something else but they
tagged on the underscore at the end of the name.
The point is is that we also used the same object.
Don't attribute pattern when we were talking about our Python modules with Hitchhiker's Guide don't
the answer and math dot pi in all of these cases we were able to access information from inside our
object using the dot notation and it didn't matter if that object was a linear regression or if it was
a Python module.
Now accessing information from objects through their attributes is very well and good but remember how
we said that Python is all about doing things with stuff.
This is where our functions come in however because we really like computer programming jargon.
We're gonna use a different word to refer to functions in this context functions that are used with
an object are called methods.
Now oftentimes you'll hear the word function and method used interchangeably.
And trust me I'd be the last person to nitpick about this use of language but it's still a good idea
to get familiar with all this vocabulary because you'll definitely come across these words online and
also nobody enjoys getting corrected by strangers on the Internet in online forums.
So use methods when you're talking about functions that belong to an object.
Let's return to our car example before we talked about how our car has a state.
It can be a new car with low mileage it can be an old car with high mileage the car's fuel tank can
be full or the car can be almost out of petrol.
The State of the car object is captured through the attributes of the car.
An attribute is a piece of information about the car like the mileage or the amount of fuel.
Now unless you're playing Top Trumps the most interesting thing about a car is not its stats but what
the car does.
And the coolest part of the car is definitely its behavior.
Remember that we said programming is about doing things well things get done by calling methods and
methods are the name for functions that belong to an object.
So an example of a method on our car object would be something like drive.
Now the question is how do we call one of these functions that's associated with our car.
Well the format is exactly the same as with the attributes we use the dot notation.
In other words we have our object then don't add the name of the method.
So for example if your red race car can drive then we'd write Lightning McQueen don't drive hand if
your car can do other things like torque then we'd follow the same pattern.
That's enough theory.
Let's put this into practice and add a function to our life.
Don't P Why file so or when the life don't P Y file from your project folder in here.
We're going to create a function by using the keyword def and when to call this function quote on the
score.
Marvin a function is not going to take any arguments so we'll just put empty parentheses and then a
colon and inside the function we'll put a print statement.
We're gonna print out a single sentence so we'll have two single quotes and then we'll write.
I've calculated here a chance of survival
but I don't think
you'll like it.
Now check out what happens if we add an apostrophe before the T.
And don't putting that single quote The terminates are string so anything after the single quote is
considered 3.
Python code and then we have another single quote here.
So this is a problem right.
We've got a special character that single quote inside of our piece of text.
The obvious problem is that in Python single quotes also go at the beginning and at the end of a string
to tell Python that something is a piece of text.
So we need to tell Python that it should ignore the single quote and don't.
In other words we have to escape the single quote character to escape a special character like this.
We have to add a backslash in front of it.
This is what a backslash looks like.
Notice how as soon as I put it there the syntax highlighting changes this single quote is ignored.
And now this single quote at the end is what terminates this string.
Now if you're looking at your keyboard you don't want to use this one here.
This is the forward slash.
And this does not escape the single quote.
You want to use the backslash.
I am going to add two more backslash us in single quotes.
I might add one here and I'm going to add one here.
Now let's save the file and then return to the Python intro notebook that we've been working in.
We're got a file save when a switch tabs to the Python intro notebook.
And this is where we've imported life as Hitchhiker's Guide.
Now if you returning to this notebook and have not run the code in here for a while you can either click
inside this cell here and press shift enter on your keyboard to rerun the cell or you can go to cell
and then run all to run all the cells in the notebook.
After you've done that go to the bottom of your notebook and there as a challenge see if you can call
the quote Marvin method.
If you call this method successfully then you see a quote from the Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy
appear below the cell after you run it.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video
and here's the solution.
You'd write Hitchhiker's Guide dot quote on the school.
Marvin and head shift enter.
Remember to call the quote Marvin method.
We need to use our module object.
In this case our module has the name Hitchhiker's Guide.
Put a dot after Hitchhiker's Guide and then write the method name.
Now suppose you just tried to run quote Marvin on its own without the object.
In that case you'd get an error.
The arrow would read name quote Marvin is not defined.
In other words are Python notebook doesn't recognize a function called quote Marvin and this is because
quote Marvin belongs to the life don't P Y file.
It belongs to the module not R Python intro notebook and this neatly illustrates the difference between
a function and a method to use quote Marvin.
We need to have that object and use the dot notation in contrast for a function like print or for a
function like type.
We didn't have to have anything before that function name print and type our functions while quote Marvin
is a method.
So let's revisit our old notebook with the linear regression again looking at this code.
PD don't read CSP.
We now see PD as the object and read underscore CSB as the method.
And below.
We can now recognize peel t the object and scatter as the method.
In fact we're calling a whole host of methods on this peel t object including X label y label title
and show.
Now a question that we get a lot and something that can be a little bit confusing is the link between
variables and objects.
So let's talk about this a little bit and link how this lesson ties in with what we said about variables
back at the top of our Python intro notebook.
We had a variable called my age.
The question you might ask at this point is is my age an object and the way to think about it is this
variables are containers variables are boxes that hold on to data.
The thing inside the variable is the actual object in this case.
The object is the number 32 the object is the data and the variable is the name that is referencing
the number 32 looking at the linear regression notebook.
We had a variable called Capital x x contained our movie budgets as a data frame.
The data frame contained in side effects is the object an x is just the name for the data frame.
So in summary a variable is a way to refer to an object at some point in time.
Variables are containers for data but a variable is not the data itself and this is actually quite important
because it links back to our lesson on data types you see in Python the type actually lives with the
object and not with the variable.
Check this out.
When I scrolled to the bottom here and in this cell right here I'm going to write.
My age is equal to single quotes two hundred and then I'm going to write type my age and had shift enter.
This now shows me that my age is a string at this point in time of the program at the top of the Python
notebook.
My age was still an integer an int but at the bottom of this notebook my age is now a string.
In other words I can change the type of my age so let's change it again when I see my age is equal to
twenty point five three I say type my age and hit shift enter.
Now we see that my age is a float so in our notebook my age starts out as an integer equal to 32.
Then it becomes a string and then it becomes a floating point number how this piece of code will actually
really really freak out a Java or C programmer by the way the Java and C guys watching this probably
just had a cold shiver run down their spine like when they watched the girl come out of the well in
the horror movie The Ring.
The important point I'm trying to make here is that in Python that type lives with the object inside
the variable not the variable itself.
So in this code we've simply changed what the object is inside of my age inside of the variable we've
changed which object the variable is referencing and there's actually another important link to our
lesson on types namely the fact that the behavior of the object will depend on its type.
So our car can drive because it's a type car.
And we could add one to my age because it was a number.
In other words the operations that you can do on an object depend on its type.
So even your simple integer is an object in Python an integer has a value say like 199 and then some
operations that we can do on it like multiplying or adding.
And this is why programmers like to think of objects as pieces of computer memory with a value and a
set of operations in Python we actually care more about what an object does rather than what it is.
Python programmers care more about an object's behavior and its methods than what its data type is.
This is what makes pythons types dynamic and this is at the root of Python's flexibility.
As a programming language on pythons Vikki PD page.
This is what people mean when they talk about pythons dynamic type system that said harp on and on about
types because in my experience even though they give Python a lot of flexibility they're also a big
stumbling block.
When you first starting out with Python now has a challenge let's put a couple of the past lessons together.
You're back as the engineering lead at the calculator company in Silicon Valley.
You've been laughing at your boss's terrible jokes and you've got a big bonus but your company needs
to ship its calculators to its first paying customers ASAP.
So it's crunch time for you and your development team and it's on you to implement the square root functionality
of the calculator.
Here's what you got to do.
You got to open that life thought P Y file and you've got to import the math module and then you're
going to try to figure out how to use the python square root functionality from the math module you're
going to create your own function called Square on a square root.
And that function is going to take one input and return the square root of whatever that function has
been given as an argument after you're all done.
You're going to save the life dot P Y file and in your Jupiter notebook you're gonna go to restart and
run all finally in the bottom cell of your python intro notebook.
You can calculate the square root of sixty three point one for how give you a few seconds to pause the
video and have a go at this challenge ready.
Here's the solution at the top of our life dot P Y file we're gonna import math
and then we're gonna create a function called D F square on a score route and it's gonna take a single
input say X semicolon and then in the body of the function we're going to return the result of the calculation.
So the question is how do we make that calculation the way we figure this out is that we're going to
Google for the official Python documentation on the math module.
So we're going to write Python math module documentation into Google and then we're gonna go to the
Python 3 which is what we're using.
Documentation the documentation will look something like this and it's a pretty long page but let's
see if we can find square root and if we search for the words square on this page we can see that the
guidance for using the square root in the math module looks like this.
We'd have to use the math module then put a dot after it and then write s q r t and provide a single
argument let's use this functionality back in our lifetime P Y module on the same line where we have
our return statement.
We're going to write math dot Eskew on T and we're going to provide the same input the same parameter
that we have for our function.
So the name of that parameter in our case is x.
Now again the exact name of this parameter doesn't really matter.
We could've called this thing something else.
In this case we'd have to be consistent.
We'd have to call this something else as well.
That way we're using the same parameter back in our Jupiter notebook.
We said we'd go to kernel restart and run all to make sure that this works no matter what it is that
you've been doing prior to getting to this point in the video.
So here in our last cell we can write Hitchhiker's Guide dot square on the score route and then provide
the value sixty three point one four.
This was the last part of the challenge hitting shift enter.
I can see an attribute error.
Life has no attribute called square root.
What do we forget to do.
If you're getting this as well it's because you haven't saved your life.
Dot P Why file and you can actually tell that they are unsafe changes by the little star in the name
of the tab.
So go to file hit save that little star will disappear and he'll say that your file was saved a few
seconds ago hence pack in our Python notebook.
We're gonna have to go again to Colonel restart and run all
scrolling down now we can see that our cell has a valued it correctly.
And the square root of sixty three point one four is about seven point nine five.
So there you go.
We've got the solution right below ourself but since our method here is returning a value let's save
this value in a variable.
So when I say result is equal to Hitchhiker's Guide dot square root and then below and when I just print
the result and had shift enter so I hope this lesson helps demystify the code that we've written previously
and explain what's going on behind the scenes.
Looking at this line of code reading result is equal to Hitchhiker's Guide dot square root sixty three
point one four.
We can see that it's exactly the same pattern as with the python code that we wrote when we're doing
our linear regression.
There we wrote.
Data is equal to PD dot read on the school V.
We've got an object called PD.
It has a method called read C.S. V.
And that method is returning a value that we're storing in a variable called theta.
Cool.
So at this point you pretty much know python.
So now Ryan Soyuz comic here can probably bring a smile to your face as well.
Also I bet you're itching to use your python knowledge to run another regression.
I'm gonna head off and grab a bite to eat now but I do look forward to seeing you in the next lesson.
Take care.